---
layout: post
title:  "Testing Plan"
date:   2016-12-8 00:30:51 +0100
categories: testing
---
This page details the testing stratedies we plan to execute for the project. This is to ensure that our system meets the specified requirements and quality standards.

__MORE__

<h3 class="section-header" id="initial-sketch">Unit Testing</h3>
To ensure the integrity, completeness and correctness of our software, we plan to develop a series of individual test cases which consists of unit tests for both our front and back-ends. After developing a feature we plan to carry out testing by running the test cases to ensure no new bugs are introduced. Since we are using django for our backend, we plan to use the **unittest** module built in to the standard library. Django also provides an API and tools for integration. As for the front end we plan to use an Angular testing tool called **Jasmine**. Jasmine provides functions that help structure our tests and also make assertions. 

To test our matching algortihm, we plan to use an open-source tool called **Appium**. Appium is useful for automaing native,mobile web and also hybrid applications. Since Appium is "cross-platform" we can write test cases against multiple platforms using the same API.

<h3 class="section-header" id="initial-sketch">Functional Testing</h3>
Functional testing is used as a quality assurance process for a software system. It refers to activities that verify a specific action or function of the code. Functional testing tends to ensure that a particular function and feature works.
In order to carry out functional testing, we plan to use our requirement specification to construct a series of test cases and use them for manual black-box testing.

<h3 class="section-header" id="initial-sketch">Compatibility Testing</h3>
Our client mentioned that the final system must be able to run on different types of operating systems and web browsers. Hence it is important that we ensure the compatibility of our application. Below are some of the test we plan to carry out.

<span class="lead sub-header">Browser compatibility</span><br>
This is to ensure that the application works on the most widely used browsers. Application may behave differently when run on different browsers. Different browsers may also have different configurations and settings that a web page should be compatible with. Therefore we plan to test our application on popular browsers such as Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari and others.

<span class="lead sub-header">OS compatibility</span><br>
In some cases a functionality of a web application may not be compatible in all oprating systems. Our client mentioned that the application ust be able to run on mobile devices as well which include the Android OS and IOS. We therefore plan to test our aplication on mobile operating systems as well. 

<h3 class="section-header" id="initial-sketch">User Acceptance Test (UAT)</h3>
This would be the last phase of testing that we plan to execute. We might also be conducting regular UAT during meetings with our client if we have completed certain functionalities and features. In order to carry out UAT, we plan to design test cases which cover our key requirements. We will then present these test cases to the client who might pass them on to the potential users of the system. We plan to use the feedback received by our client to improve overall quality of the system. This process is to ensure that the system can handle required tasks in the real-world scenarios.